# Ansible Collection - puppeteers.postiz

This collection contains roles for managing [Postiz](https://postiz.com/), a
social media management platform. It uses
[postiz-podman-quadlets](https://github.com/Puppet-Finland/postiz-podman-quadlets)
which are based on [postiz-docker-compose](https://github.com/gitroomhq/postiz-docker-compose)

# Roles

## puppeteers.postiz.podman

This role sets up Postiz using Podman Quadlets, which are auto-generated
systemd unit files. The units run as a non-root user (default: postiz)
generated by this role. For more details on Quadlets check their man page:

    $ man podman-systemd.unit

Currently this role has been tested only on Alma Linux 10. To use it you need
to define the following variables:

```
puppeteers_postiz_ssh_authorized_key: <authorized key>
puppeteers_postiz_postiz_postgresql_password: <postgresql password for postiz>
puppeteers_postiz_jwt_secret: <random-string>
puppeteers_postiz_temporal_postgresql_password: <postgresql password for temporal>
```

The SSH authorized key is not absolutely necessary, but it will be way easier
to debug and fix things if you have direct access to the Postiz host as the
user postiz containers run as (default: postiz).

By default this role should configure postiz correctly for access through
localhost (e.g. SSH tunnel). Due to cookie security trying to access it through
a proper DNS name and unencrypted HTTP connection will silently fail. For
proper production access you need to configure a HTTPS proxy (see below).

See [roles/podman/defaults/main.yml](roles/podman/defaults/main.yml) for
details on all the variables you can configure.

**NOTE:** you will probably need to restart postiz.service after this role
has run. This may be an ordering / timing issue in the units.

### Optional: configure HTTPS proxy and firewalld rules

This role can setup up a HTTPS proxy in front of postiz using an nginx
container. The relevant parameters are:

    puppeteers_postiz_manage_https_proxy: true
    puppeteers_postiz_server_name: postiz.example.com
    puppeteers_postiz_ssl_certificate_path: /etc/letsencrypt/live/postiz.example.com/fullchain.pem
    puppeteers_postiz_ssl_certificate_key_path: /etc/letsencrypt/live/postiz.example.com/privkey.pem

The certificate paths must be present *inside* the nginx container. In fact,
the postiz-https-proxy container mounts ~/.local/share/letsencrypt as a volume.
If that directory is missing, then starting the HTTPS proxy will fail.

**NOTE:** there is no support for automatically refreshing the certificates the
HTTPS proxy uses or restarting it afterwards. That part you need to configure
separately.

The HTTPS proxy container exposes its TCP port 443 on port 8443 on the
container host. This is necessary because binding directly to port 443 as an
unprivileged user (e.g. postiz) is not possible. The optional firewalld setup
in this role can handle redirecting traffic coming to the container host TCP
port 443 to container port 8443. Example usage:

    puppeteers_postiz_manage_firewalld: true
    puppeteers_postiz_firewalld_zone: internal
    puppeteers_postiz_unprivileged_https_port: 8443
